# Cyber-Basics
apriori.py -  Apriori is an algorithm for frequent item set mining and association rule learning over transactional databases. It proceeds by identifying the frequent individual items in the database and extending them to larger and larger item sets as long as those item sets appear sufficiently often in the database. The frequent item sets determined by Apriori can be used to determine  association rules which highlight general trends in the database: this has applications in domains such as market basket analysis.

dsaCodeOP.pdf  - DSA is a pair of large numbers. The numbers are generated within a specified algorithm that enables the authentication of the signatory. The signatures are generated with the use of the private key and verification uses the public key. Each signatory will have their own public and private key. A signature can however only be generated by an authorized person using their private key and the corresponding public key can then be used by anyone to verify the signature.
A message digest (also known as a summary of the information) is created by using a hash function (the Secure Hash Standard). This summary is conjunction with the DSA algorithm is used to create a digital signature that is sent with the messages. The verification process also uses the same hash function.

millerRabinTestCodeOP.pdf -  The Miller–Rabin primality test or Rabin–Miller primality test is a primality test: an algorithm which determines whether a given number is prime or not.


passwordEncryptionCodeOP.pdf
•	Caesar cipher - It is a type of substitution cipher in which each letter in the plaintext is 'shifted' a certain number of places down the alphabet. For example, with a shift of 1, A would be replaced by B, B would become C, and so on

•	Hill cipher - Hill cipher is a polygraphic substitution cipher based on linear algebra.Each letter is represented by a number modulo 26. Often the simple scheme A = 0, B = 1, …, Z = 25 is used, but this is not an essential feature of the cipher. To encrypt a message, each block of n letters (considered as an n-component vector) is multiplied by an invertible n × n matrix, against modulus 26. To decrypt the message, each block is multiplied by the inverse of the matrix used for encryption.The matrix used for encryption is the cipher key, and it should be chosen randomly from the set of invertible n × n matrices (modulo 26).
•	DES - DES is an implementation of a Feistel Cipher. It uses 16 round Feistel structure. The block size is 64-bit. Though, key length is 64-bit, DES has an effective key length of 56 bits, since 8 of the 64 bits of the key are not used by the encryption algorithm (function as check bits only).

sha1HashingCodeOP1.pdf- SHA-1 or Secure Hash Algorithm 1 is a cryptographic hash function which takes an input and produces a 160-bit (20-byte) hash value. This hash value is known as a message digest. This message digest is usually then rendered as a hexadecimal number which is 40 digits long

tf-idf.py -In information retrieval, tf–idf or TFIDF, short for term frequency–inverse document frequency, is a numerical statistic that is intended to reflect how important a word is to a document in a collection or corpus. It is often used as a weighting factor in searches of information retrieval, text mining, and user modeling. The tf–idf value increases proportionally to the number of times a word appears in the document and is offset by the number of documents in the corpus that contain the word, which helps to adjust for the fact that some words appear more frequently in general. tf–idf is one of the most popular term-weighting schemes today; 83% of text-based recommender systems in digital libraries use tf–idf.

